# 1.6

I define the new-if procedure as a "replacement" for if and register it in the environment:

``` racket
(define (new-if predicate 
                then-clause 
                else-clause)
  (cond (predicate then-clause)
        (else else-clause)))
```

I consider the case in which it is used in this definition:

``` racket
(define (sqrt-iter guess x)
  (new-if (good-enough? guess x)
          guess
          (sqrt-iter (improve guess x) x)))
```

## First Attempt	
I try to test with the sqrt procedure, which is recursive, the interpreter does not respond and times out.
What will happen?

Let's try a simple substitution---

``` racket
(define (sqrt-iter guess x)
  (cond ((good-enough? guess x) guess)
          (else  (sqrt-iter (improve guess x) x))))
```
My theory is that it takes too long to replace the definition, but how do I text it? I might go and look for a library function that prints the function on every iteration. Using the trace function which traces the evolution of the process, I notice that it never stops, so I assume that my theory is wrong with the guess parameter stopping at the same correct value.
What if I use a normal if and repeat the same experiment? I notice changes in the evolution of the process, and the process reaches a conclusion by changing the "guess" parameter, so my theory is wrong, I have to make a change of hypothesis...

The difference between sqrt-iter implemented with new-if and the one implemented with if is that they both compute the result correctly but the new-if never causes the process to stop, so there is something about the new-if that always returns the sqrt- iter as a condition, perhaps because the else is a condition that always evaluates to true?

I'll stop with the stipulation that there is something about how the interpreter calculates the special form of "if" that makes the process terminate when it returns true in the last iteration and instead the cond makes the last iteration repeat infinitely until I discover something relevant by reading the book.


I imagine what the cond does in the latest iteration in Lisp:
``` racket
(cond ( (good-enough? 3.354 9) guess)
    (else (cond ((good-enough? 3.000818 9) 3)
        (else  (sqrt-iter (improve 3 9) 9)))))
```

## Second Attempt
I thought wrong, here the cond with the predicate of true, is a series of expressions, but the series of expressions sometimes consists of nested conds thanks to recursion on the function itself, so it is true that the last value in the series of expressions is "3" but it's pretty much the value that only the most "nested" cond has, and due to the nature of the cond it can't be the value of the entire expression because the cond above has the value (sqrt-iter (improve guess x) guess) .Therefore the interpreter will never unravel this last step due to the recursive nature of the procedure.

Wrong hypothesis: doing a test it is clear that the infinite iteration always updates the guess value, only that at a certain point it is no longer able to do so with precision, but still returns true after having established a certain precision although it returns true, the process does not end. I update it by saying that I keep the fact that the else of the nested penultimate cond is still executed

## Breakthrough
If I use the cond "directly" in the sqrt-iter definition:
``` rackets
(define (sqrt-iter guess x)
 (cond ((good-enough? guess x)
 guess)
 (else (sqrt-iter (improve guess x) x))))
```
The process finishes the task, so from this I deduce that defining the new-if procedure causes the problem which could depend on the interpreter following the application calculation order.

## Definitions that helped

``` racket
(define (improve x y)  (average x (/ y x)))

(define (average x y) 
  (/ (+ x y) 2))
  
(define (good-enough? guess x)
  (< (abs (- (square guess) x)) 0.001))
```
	  
