# 1.38


## Follow Up
The exercise ask me to expand on this procedure:

(define (cont-frac num den n)
	(define (cont-frac-iter k)
		(cond ((= k n) (/ (num k) (den k)))
			(else (/ (num k) (+ (den k) (cont-frac-iter (+ k 1)))
					  )
			)
		)
	) 
	(cont-frac-iter 1))

to find the number e - 2 (e is Euler's number) 

The description tells that Ni must be always 1 and Di follows a precise rule:
Di -> 1, 2, 1, 1, 4, 1, 1, 6, 1, 1, 8, 1, 1, 10...


## First Attempt with finding the correct point
what's the relationship between k and D(k) here?

let's say k starts with 1...
D(1) = 1
D(2) = 2
D(3) = 1
D(4) = 1
D(5) = 4
... the next even number is at D(next even number - 2)
There's a pattern that tells me that in order to find when D(i) is not 1, take k, if it's equal to next even + c where c is a counter that accounts the number of even numbers I found in order starting from 0, then D(k) = next even.

How do I find c given next-even and k though?
Let's see first if lambda accepts a let expression inside. Yes it can!
I made this stupid test: 
(lambda (i) (let ((c 1)) (+ c i)))
#<procedure>

So now that I found that I create local variables inside a lambda, how do I find the value of c for every iteration? While taking a break I found something interesting about the sequence:
Take D(k) where is even, then k/3 is something like c.666666... so given this statement, I choose a tolerance for the decimal numbers and pick the integer part of the k/3 that respect the tolerance, 
given that in Lisp procedures are first class status, I can even assign the tolerance as a predicate to a local variable binded by let:

But first, I also need a procedure that take the decimal part of a number and the integer part...

(define (integer-of x) (if (and (< 1 (/ x 10)) (> 0 (/ x 10))) (floor x) (integer-of (/ x 10)))) this works if x < 10 and x > 0, in order to account for the size of the number, I need a counter that accounts for the number of iterations
and give as an output the floored number multiplied by 10^n_of_iteration

or I can just use the floor procedure after all...

(define (tolerance k) (< (abs (- (-  (/ k 3) (floor (/ k 3))) 0.6666666665)) 0.0000000002))
(lambda (k) (let ((tolerance (< (- (- (floor ((/ k 3))) (/ k 3)) 0.66666) 0.000001) ((let ((c 1)) (+ c i)))))


## Second attempt with finding the correct point
This is a procedure that after testing it with the interpreter is enough to give a correct estimation of the right value of D(c) = even number, but after watching a video I know the remainder procedure that
does what I want with fewer stresses. So a procedure of tolerance is a predicate that:
``` racket
(define (even-point? k) (= 2 (remainder k 3)))
```

I renamed the procedure even-point? because the previous naming losed the nuances and is in scope with the method I want to chase.


## Putting it all together
So, to go back to the task assigned by the exercise:
I'll transform it to an exercise to find the euler number (just give it a + 2)

``` racket
(define (euler-number-by-cont-frac k) 
	(define (even-point? k) (= 2 (remainder k 3)))
	(+ 2 (cont-frac (lambda (i) 1.0) (lambda (i) (if (even-point? i) (* (ceiling (/ i 3)) 2) 1 )) k))
)
```

## Explanation of computing the even value at the correct point
Why ceiling? because i / 3 gives the progressive number in the sequence of the even found in D(k) and I can't start with 0, let's test this procedure.

--- TEST NEGATIVE  
the procedure fluctuates in the output in a weird manned and doesn't converge to e as I make k bigger


By adjusting the cont-frac procedure in order to make it follow the correct sequence of steps the euler number procedure does the required job.